- Vanilla Ice Readme -


  = Q & A =


 Q : Why Vice? 

 A : Well I don't know. In actuality I hate this character from my time playing competitively in HFTF. I guess I just wanted to
     see how I could fit a completely bullshit character in a CvS environment.


 Q : What's his playstyle like?

 A : Vice is crippled heavily from his top tier appearance in HFTF. He's now a mainly neutral based character like Khan with solid
     buttons, a strong Stand On mode, and very damaging combos.


 Q : How do you play Vice?

 A : Vice is a neutral heavy character that relies on good buttons and a varied approach with execution heavy combos to deal damage.
     In a sense he's more or less a more balanced version of his HFTF self. He has a good blend of offensive options in relatively
     safe blockstrings and good buttons, and defensive options in a strong Stand On mode that negates chip and gives him more defense.
     There are gaps in his playstyle however, as unlike in source, he has trouble actually opening the opponent up, and doesn't have
     any strong mixups. Any character with strong defensive options are going to be troublesome for Vice as he will be unable to get
     any sort of substantial damage. With characters that have weak defensive options, they will be completely eaten by Vice's pokes
     and combos. On the topic of his pokes, he has plenty that suits his neutral. st.MP is a great anti-air and jump stuffer, st.HP
     and st.HK are great whiff punishers, S.cr.HP is the primary stand on poke, S.st.MK/S.st.HP are the go to stand on anti airs,
     S.j.MK is the go to stand on air-to-air, j.HP is the go-to jump in, j.MK is a good cross-up tool, j.HK is the best stand off air
     to air, and once he uses all these tools effectively, his neutral becomes quite difficult to challenge. On top of his solid neutral,
     his combos are as expected execution heavy and damaging. Using tandem, you can net big damage off of the optimal combo starters.
     A 1.5 bar combo optimally nets ~30% off of a stand on confirm, and around ~27% from a stand off one. Even with one bar you can get
     ~25% stand off and ~23% stand on. Tandem is very much nerfed and isn't Vice's most damaging tool anymore, however it still works
     for Vice very well. Much like in source the execution and many windows to get these combos is tight. Another thing to note is his
     Stand On. Stand On Vice is overall a better version of Vice. While he's much floatier, his range, damage and defense are increased,
     however his Stand guage is relatively weak and can be broken easily with good pokes and short combos. Stand On Vice is more of a 
     glass cannon compared to Stand Off. Knowing how and when to utilize both his Stand On and Stand Off is crucial to getting down
     the neutral of Vice. Flexibility is key, as while Stand On Vice is much better than Stand Off, the weak stand guage of Stand On
     Vice holds too much risk to be using Stand On exclusively over Stand Off. If you can flexibly fluctuate between Stand On and Stand
     Off while maintaining good neutral, Vice will be doing just fine.


 Q : What's this extra Vice mode? Why does he play and look different?

 A : This mode is known as Boss Ice, or Bice for short. Bice was originally a non playable character that could only be accessed in HFTF's
     debug mode. He's fought by the Stardust Crusaders in the story mode of HFTF, and plays much like a video game boss. This time around
     he's more buffed than nerfed as Bice was a complete downgrade from normal Vice in source. His buttons have really good disjoint, damage,
     priority and uses, and his mobility via dashing is also kept from source. His specials are still relatively easy to avoid however if
     you get hit Bice will have I-frames throughout his recovery and landing from the special. He also falls faster than in source making
     it difficult to punish him, and while it's almost random as to where he appears on the screen in source, in this version once Bice is
     done with his special he will always appear at the center of the screen. He only has two supers that are treated as level 3's but only
     take 1 bar, both are pretty easy to avoid but if they land they do 35% damage. Also Bice will get full invincibility on the startup of
     his specials and supers, you cannot punish him until he's falling down after using it. Since he has 0 hurtboxes during the startup he
     is unable to be hit or thrown, however due to the relatively easy path to punishing the specials and supers, simply spamming them to
     be near impossible to hit will not really do anything to win. His playstyle is similar if not identical to normal Vice, and that is to
     play good neutral and use good buttons to win. 



  = VICE BEGINNER COMBOS =

 *the S. in the notation means you have to be Stand On to perform the combo. There is a section
  on the Stand mechanic in the movelist file.

 cr.LP, cr.LP, st.HP xx MP.Cream Hop

 S.cr.LP, S.cr.LP, s.cr.HP xx S.LP.Cream Hop

 st.HP xx EX.Cream Hop, st.HP xx Raging Vengeance

 cr.LP, cr.LP, st.HK xx lvl.1 tandem (cr.LP,cr.MP,cr.HP), st.HP xx MP.Cream Hop

 S.cr.LP, S.cr.LP, S.cr.HP xx S.EX.Cream Hop, S.cr.LP, S.cr.HP xx S.LP.Cream Hop


  = VICE CUSTOM COMBOS =

 Install, repeat (st.HP xx st.HK), Raging Vengeance


  = BICE BEGINNER COMBOS =

 st.HP, st.HK, j.HP

 S.st.LP xx S.st.LP xx S.st.HP

 S.cr.LP xx S.cr.LP xx S.st.LP xxx S.st.HK

 S.st.LP xx S.st.LP xx S.st.HP xx lvl.1 tandem (cr.LP,cr.MP,cr.HP), st.HP, S+st.LP xx S.st.HP

 st.HP, S.st.HP xx lvl.1 tandem (LP,MP,HP)


  = BICE CUSTOM COMBOS =

 Install, repeat (S.st.HP xx S.st.HK), Void Break


 = CREDITS =

  Warusaki3 - SFF (Extra CS done by Troy99)
  additional sprite rips (unused intro, bice sprites) - Me

 Joey, Dawn De Era, Dronk - Feedback